# Online-Recommendation-Engine-Using-Web-Scraping-Data

**Web scraping** is a technique for converting the data present in unstructured format (HTML tags) over the web to the structured format which can easily be accessed and used.Here, I have used**Document Object Model(DOM)** parsing to retrieve the contents generated by client-side scripts.   
  
In order to retrieve the data from CSS selectors of web page, I have used a google chrome extension called **Selector Gadget** which helps in selecting the parts of any website and get the relevant tags to get access to that part by simply clicking on that part of the website.  
In this Project, I scrapped the data from IMDB website page which shows most popular films of 2016. I had scrapped the following data from this website.    
    
**Rank**: The rank of the film from 1 to 100 on the list of 100 most popular feature films released in 2016.   
**Title**: The title of the feature film.  
**Description**: The description of the feature film.  
**Runtime**: The duration of the feature film.  
**Genre**: The genre of the feature film.     
**Rating**: The IMDb rating of the feature film.  
**Metascore**: The metascore on IMDb website for the feature film.   
**Votes**: Votes cast in favor of the feature film.  
**Gross_Earning_in_Mil**: The gross earnings of the feature film in millions.  
**Director**: The main director of the feature film. Note, in case of multiple directors, I’ll take only the first.  
**Actor**: The main actor of the feature film. Note, in case of multiple actors, I’ll take only the first.     

After generating the dataset, I had used Context Based Filtering approach by using the user inputted movie genre to recommend the list of movies the user may like too. I have created an online shiny app consists of two parts ui.R and server.R in the same app file. ui.R contains the user interface of the application which help the user to give inputs and select the values. server.R contains the actual code of the application which makes it running and this will process all the results by using the inputted values from user provided in ui.R.

